(Bloomberg) -- Stocks in Asia fluctuated early Monday as spikes in virus cases in parts the region and lingering inflation concerns weighed on investor sentiment. U.S. futures dipped.

Shares rose in Australia but slipped in Japan and South Korea as markets responded to the latest curbs on activity to halt the spread of Covid-19. U.S. stocks ended in the green Friday after gathering price pressures pushed equity markets globally to their worst weekly loss since February.

The spread of the virus is front and center again as Singapore plans to close public schools this week and move to home-based learning. Taiwan is racing to contain its worst outbreak and avert a full lockdown.

Treasury yields were steady after dropping Friday on a report that showed the recent surge in U.S. retail sales stalled in April. The dollar edged up against its major peers.

The momentum in commodity markets seems to have flagged after breakneck gains, with copper and iron ore coming off record highs amid efforts by China to clamp down on surging prices.

Concerns that policy makers will have to pull back support sooner than expected to quell rising inflation have weighed on global equities. Investors this week will parse the minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee’s latest meeting for any discussion about accelerating price pressures, and hints of a timeline for reducing asset purchases.

“Record highs in copper prices and fears over extended oil price gains will be hard to ignore” heading into the second half of the year, wrote Eric Robertsen, global head of research at Standard Chartered. “The Fed believes this is part of the economic reopening narrative, and for now, it is likely let the dust settle. But it might start looking over its shoulder if prices stay high.”

The Federal Reserve’s policy is in a good place right now, said Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester, while playing down data that she warns will be volatile as the economy reopens. Fed Vice Chair Richard Clarida and Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic are due to speak this week.

Bitcoin fell to the lowest since February after Elon Musk implied on Twitter Sunday that Tesla Inc. may sell or has sold its cryptocurrency holdings. The digital coin dipped below $45,000 for the first time in almost three months before paring losses.

Click here for MLIV’s Question of the Day: How Far Can East-West Stocks Divergence Go?

Here are some key events this week:

China releases industrial production, retail sales data on MondayReserve Bank of Australia publishes minutes of its latest meeting TuesdayFed Vice Chair Richard Clarida and Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic are among policy makers speaking this weekThe Fed publishes minutes from its April meeting Wednesday, which may provide clues to officials’ views on the recovery and how they define “transitory” when it comes to inflationAustralia releases employment data for April on Thursday

These are some of the main moves in markets:

Stocks

S&P 500 futures fell 0.2% as of 9:31 a.m. in Tokyo. The S&P 500 rose 1.5%Nasdaq 100 contracts lost 0.3%. The Nasdaq 100 rose 2.2%Topix index fell 0.1%Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.4%South Korea’s Kospi index fell 0.2%

Currencies

The yen lost 0.1% to 109.47 per dollarThe offshore yuan was at 6.4453 per dollarThe Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index rose 0.1%The euro was at $1.2136%

Bonds

The yield on 10-year Treasuries was at 1.63%Australia’s 10-year bond yield fell two basis points to 1.77%

Commodities

West Texas Intermediate crude fell 0.2% to $65.27 a barrelGold was steady at $1,845.70

For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com

Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.

©2021 Bloomberg L.P.
